# Number-Guessing-Game
This program is called the Number Guessing Game. The first thing the code does is import the Scanner method to be able to take in input from the user playing the game. The code opens the program with a statement that says "I'm thinking of a number between 1 and 100...". This lets the user know what range the numbers are in. I created a boolean variable to determine when the game is over. It is called gameover and in the beginning it is set to false. I created a variable called secret number, which holds a random number that is generated by the Math.random. Also, I created a guesses allowed variable that only allows the user to have 12 guesses per game. In the code, there is a while loop that continues as long as gameover does not equal true and the number of guesses do not equal the amount of guesses allowed. Inside the while loop, the code starts off by asking the user to guess a number. It takes the number the user guesses and places it in a variable called guess. It increments the variable number of guesses by 1. After that, an if statement checks to see if the number that was guessed is lower than the number in the secret number variable. If it is, the code will print out a sentence saying the number is too low. If it is not lower than the secret number, an else if will check to see if the guessed number is higher than the secret number, it will also print out a sentence that says it is too high if so. Another else if will check to see if the secret number and the guessed number are the same. If that is the case, then the program will output a congratulations message, tell the user how many guesses it took them, and set gameover to true to end the while loop. If the user reaches the max amount of guesses, then the while loop will not continue and a "you have lost" message will be printed. 
